# Apr 15, 2025 Budget Comm Minutes

## Attendees:&#x20;

\


| Name                                | Attendance  | Role                         | Voting Seat (Y/N) |
| ----------------------------------- | ----------- | ---------------------------- | ----------------- |
| Andreas Pletscher                   | Yes         | Secretary                    | <p><br></p>       |
| Danielle Stanko                     | <p><br></p> | Budget Task Force, IOG Staff | <p><br></p>       |
| Dave Dionisio                       | <p><br></p> | Observer                     | <p><br></p>       |
| Jose Maria Francisco Otegui Alvarez | <p><br></p> | Observer                     | <p><br></p>       |
| Jose Velazquez                      | <p><br></p> | Former Voting Member         | <p><br></p>       |
| Kriss Baird                         | <p><br></p> | Voting Member, IOG, Catalyst | <p><br></p>       |
| Kristijan Kowalsky                  | <p><br></p> | Voting Member, Tweag         | <p><br></p>       |
| Lloyd Duhon                         | <p><br></p> | Budget Secretary             | <p><br></p>       |
| Mercy                               | <p><br></p> | Voting Member, WADA          | <p><br></p>       |
| Micheal Madoff                      | <p><br></p> | Budget Task Force, IOG Staff | <p><br></p>       |

&#x20;

Recording: [https://drive.google.com/file/d/1z88jBlCZbG4KJ0aPD7PldtmOIPKMVdHB/view?usp=drive\_link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1z88jBlCZbG4KJ0aPD7PldtmOIPKMVdHB/view?usp=drive_link)

\


Transcript: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xLNZ3sxczOe2DEgGqHqPlndXyplLAA6hmr19yE1y\_L0/edit?tab=t.0](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xLNZ3sxczOe2DEgGqHqPlndXyplLAA6hmr19yE1y_L0/edit?tab=t.0)

## Agenda 1.16.25

* The primary agenda was to discuss updates on the budget process, including Gov tool polling, DREP engagement, and smart contract development, in preparation for reconciliation.
* A key focus was on strategies to address low DREP participation and fatigue, exploring options like targeted outreach and potentially bundling governance actions.
* The meeting also covered the status of vendor proposals, tooling integration, and the need to finalize decisions on the threshold for proposals to enter the Budget Info Action.

\
\


## Decisions/Actions

\


| Topic                                              | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Action Items                                                                                                                                                    |
| -------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Budget Process Overview                            | The committee is in the midst of proposal review workshops and preparing for reconciliation. Gov tool polling is on track. The drip drops team is building a Hydra-based solution for potential use in the reconciliation workshop.                                                                                              | Surface demo of Hydra-based solution when available.                                                                                                            |
| DREP & Community Feedback                          | Knowledge base pages are live. Orientation slides for proposal workshops are being reused. A unified Luma calendar aggregates all budget-related events (workshops, AMAs, X spaces, hub events) to improve awareness and sign-ups.                                                                                               | Continue sharing the unified Luma calendar link widely.                                                                                                         |
| On-chain Governance Action: Net Change Limit (NCL) | DREP participation in the NCL vote is low. An outreach plan is in place to encourage voting and answer questions. The community's 300 ADA/year NCL proposal is unlikely to pass by its April 19th expiry due to low engagement.                                                                                                  | Continue NCL outreach plan to encourage DREP voting.                                                                                                            |
| Constitutionality of NCLs                          | A question was raised regarding Intersect's assessment of the constitutionality of the two NCL info actions. There's a perceived delay in this assessment.                                                                                                                                                                       | Lloyd Duhon to check with Thomas Lindseth on the status of the NCL constitutionality assessment.                                                                |
| Smart Contract Development                         | Smart contract development is progressing. Feedback from workshops has been incorporated, but some outstanding questions remain. An AMA session is planned for May to finalize smart contract decisions for June operations.                                                                                                     | Schedule AMA session in May to finalize smart contract decisions.                                                                                               |
| Intersect Back Office Readiness                    | Intersect is preparing its back office to act as an administrator and integrate with the smart contract framework.                                                                                                                                                                                                               | N/A                                                                                                                                                             |
| Vendor Proposals & Tooling Integration             | Approximately 120 proposals have been submitted, with comments and up/down polling live on Gov tool. Committees are beginning to review proposals. Tempo has successfully connected on the read side of Gov tool but still has post-side issues. Intersect is currently only pushing Gov tool for voting to avoid fragmentation. | Continue monitoring Tempo's integration with Gov tool.                                                                                                          |
| Reconciliation Workshop Progress & Feedback        | The first two reconciliation workshops are complete. Feedback from colleagues indicated that the 5-minute pitch format was too short, and DREP attendance remains low. Some proposals seemed more relevant for Catalyst funding.                                                                                                 | Update calendar invites for workshops to clearly state pitch duration. Address low DREP attendance.                                                             |
| DREP Engagement & Overwhelm                        | DREP participation is a major concern, both in info actions and workshops. There's a perception that DREPs are overwhelmed. Strategies discussed include increased direct marketing/networking with DREPs and potentially reducing items on the DREP table.                                                                      | Implement a robust "get out the vote" marketing and networking strategy for DREPs. Strategize on critical items to present to DREPs to avoid overwhelming them. |
| Proposals and Edit Lock-down Date                  | Proposals can currently be modified, causing DREP hesitation to review. The committee discussed solidifying April 24th as the lock-down date for all proposals, after which only DREP-requested changes would be considered.                                                                                                     | Communicate April 24th as the hard lock-down date for all proposal edits.                                                                                       |
| DREP Compensation Scheme                           | A previous Civics Committee workstream on DREP compensation saw pushback and didn't reach consensus for implementation in this budget cycle. A proposal to research it further is pending.                                                                                                                                       | N/A                                                                                                                                                             |
| Bundling Governance Actions                        | To mitigate DREP fatigue, the idea of bundling the Net Change Limit and the Budget Info Action into a single info action was proposed for a single vote. This requires confirming its constitutionality.                                                                                                                         | Investigate the constitutionality and feasibility of bundling the NCL and BIA into one info action.                                                             |
| TSC & IO Proposal Alignment                        | The TSC has submitted a proposal similar to IO's, creating a challenge for DREPs. There's a need to encourage collaboration between TSC and IO or clarify the differences to DREPs.                                                                                                                                              | Encourage dialogue between TSC and IO to streamline their core proposals for DREP clarity.                                                                      |
| Budget Info Action Threshold                       | The committee still needs to define the specific threshold number or methodology for proposals to be included in the Budget Info Action. This will be finalized after the Friday meeting with Voltage Control and after new tooling is available.                                                                                | Finalize the threshold for proposals to be included in the Budget Info Action.                                                                                  |
