# November 18, 2024

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Role      | Name               | Voting Member |
| --------- | ------------------ | ------------- |
| Chair     | Steven Lupien      | Yes           |
| Member    | Jeffrey Siler      | Yes           |
| Member    | Kriss Baird        | Yes           |
| Member    | Shunsuke Murasaki  | Yes           |
| Member    | Rita Mistry        | Yes           |
| Member    | Mercy Fordwoo      | Yes           |
| Member    | Jose Velazquez     | Yes           |
| Member    | Kristijan Kowalsky | Yes           |
| Member    | Pepe Otegui        | Yes           |
| Secretary | Lawrence Clark     | No            |
| SME       | Lloyd Duhon        | No            |
| Observer  | Rafael Fraga       | No            |
| Observer  | Dave Dionsio       | No            |
| Observer  | Thiago Nunes       | No            |
| Observer  | Jack Briggs        | No            |
| Observer  | Nicholas Cerney    | No            |

Absents:

Steven Lupien, Jeffrey Siler, Kriss Baird, Pepe Otegui

## Agenda:

* Access to Budget Google Drive
* November Socialization Plan
  1. Align on workshop scope and attendance.&#x20;
  2. Agree on how Committees present their scope.
  3. Confirm the approach to managing items not coming from a committee.

## Access to Budget Google Drive

Lawrence asked all to confirm they had access to the Budget Committee Google Drive.  The drive has all our working documents, and the committee members are encouraged to review and comment on any of our key documents.  Including budget process and Net change limit&#x20;

All participants confirmed that they had access to the Google Drive.

## November Workshops

Lloyd provided an update following the first committee presentation to the community.&#x20;

Product Committee: The session went well, with many constructive questions from the audience.  The second product committee is due within the next two days.&#x20;

More committee sessions are planned, with all of them doing two sessions to cover multiple time zones.&#x20;

Lloyd confirmed that more activity is required on X (socials), and he is happy to work with any members of the committee should they wish to host or post anything.&#x20;

Lloyd confirmed that he is working on a number of short videos that will help people understand the key part of the process as we lead into the constitutional event in December.&#x20;

Call to action: The Budget Committee members are asked to support the Zoom sessions and socials by attending the sessions and introducing themselves as Budget Committee Members.&#x20;

## Budget Proposal

Lawrence Updated the attendees that the Net Change Limite estimate was still in the region of 300-500m ada.  With changes to the constitution likely during the December event, the final proposal will be ready by late December/early January.&#x20;

## Budget Committee Working Groups&#x20;

### 2025 Budget Process

A person from the committee was asked to volunteer to set up a working group to review and evolve the budget process for 2026. &#x20;

Motion taken: Kriss Briad volenterred to set up a working group to review and evolve the budget process.&#x20;

### Audit Working Group

A person from the committee was asked to volunteer to set up a working group to define the audit process. &#x20;

Motion taken: Jose Velazquez volenterred to set up a working group to define the audit process.

### Treasury Working Group

Lawrence Clark confirmed that this group was in progress and would continue leading this into 2025.&#x20;

## Any other Business&#x20;

Lawrence noted that a Tax working group would be required&#x20;

\












