# Weekly Catchup \[03/09/2024]

## Agenda

* \- Complete Remaining Governance documents&#x20;
  * Code of conduct
  * Arbitration&#x20;
  * Escalation and grievance&#x20;
  * Term of Reference&#x20;
* \- Agree Office Hours schedule
  * AMA’s to be set weekly US timezone&#x20;
* \- Agree AMA’s and attendance&#x20;
  * Lloyd/Lawrence + others as diaries permit&#x20;
* \- Review and agree additional observers and/or voting members&#x20;
  * See below
* Review milestones and timeline of Budget 2025
  * Lloyd to walk through
* AOB
  * Workshop to review end to end&#x20;

## Notes:

### **Complete Remaining Governance documents**

Lloyd Duhon asked the committee for approval on all remaining governance documents for the committee.  These are foundation documents and will be included as a part of our Terms of Reference.&#x20;

**Unanimously approved.** All Governance documents approved.

### **Agree on Office Hours schedule**

Lawrence Clark explained that Lloyd Duhon and he will set up two weekly meetings called Ask Me Anything (AMA)—one in the European timezone and one in the US timezone.  The board is encouraged to attend the sessions when appropriate.&#x20;

### **Review and agree on additional observers**

* JJ proposes adding some non-voting observers to the Committee.
  * Pepe Otegui, diplomat and Argentine Community member
  * Dave Dionisio, CoS to Ger Moroney, Intersect Board member, US community member
  * Rafa Fraga, CF Latam Lead, Brazil community member
* LC would like to propose&#x20;
  * Sean Malik - US-based member, met at RearEvo, works in finance, and is keen to get involved. &#x20;

Unanimously approved.  All individuals proposed are approved to attend future meetings as observers.&#x20;

### **Review milestones and timeline of Budget 2025**

Lloyd Duhon walked the committee through the September plan.  JJ requested that this visual be placed into a written plan so that the committee can see each task, sub-task and its associated owner.

Lloyd Duhon suggested using a Notion plan for the Budget committee.  Lloyd Duhon and Lawrence Clark will review the tooling.&#x20;

![](https://lh7-rt.googleusercontent.com/docsz/AD\_4nXerEZcCzBHh90hOs94ZtbFgSTd0OCdFebxLv-mi02DivMcJHyD06ikJIjqDAfhDmwTch17OvWHU9rSkl7Ph4UlFr4t7Z5L7Iukf6vrQEbuY1dpApKev-7A35AeK0cmAVJ8oxNRRfjzPP-hbvLPxeSU9\_pi9?key=V9\_tWKV5Wg6EnzjEyzNCew)

### **AOB**

Kriss Baird asked that our meeting scheduled for Monday, 9th September, be moved to Tuesday, 10th September, at 1600 UTC. &#x20;

**Unanimously approved.** All attendees and the Chair confirm the meeting move from 9 September to 10 September.

JJ asked Intersect to consider setting up or merging a committee focused on the Innovation bucket.  Lawrence Clark confirmed that this had been discussed with Kriss Baird as something Intersect should consider for 2025.

\
\
