# Feb 3, 2025, Budget Meeting notes

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th valign="top"></th><th valign="top"></th><th valign="top"></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td valign="top">Role</td><td valign="top">Name</td><td valign="top">Voting member</td></tr><tr><td valign="top">Chair</td><td valign="top">Steven Lupien</td><td valign="top">Yes</td></tr><tr><td valign="top">Member</td><td valign="top">Jeffrey Siler</td><td valign="top">Yes</td></tr><tr><td valign="top">Member</td><td valign="top">Kriss Baird</td><td valign="top">Yes</td></tr><tr><td valign="top">Member</td><td valign="top">Shunsuke Murasaki</td><td valign="top">Yes</td></tr><tr><td valign="top">Member</td><td valign="top">Rita Mistry</td><td valign="top">Yes</td></tr><tr><td valign="top">Member</td><td valign="top">Mercy Fordwoo</td><td valign="top">Yes</td></tr><tr><td valign="top">Member</td><td valign="top">Jose Velazquez</td><td valign="top">Yes</td></tr><tr><td valign="top">Member</td><td valign="top">Kristijan Kowalsky</td><td valign="top">Yes</td></tr><tr><td valign="top">Member</td><td valign="top">Pepe Otegui</td><td valign="top">Yes</td></tr></tbody></table>

## Summary

The meeting focused on discussing the budget committee's progress and challenges in reviewing committee budget proposals. Lawrence Clark led the discussion about the budget spreadsheet details, explaining the structure and categories of budget requests. Lloyd provided insights about the progress of the TSC and OSC committees. The committee discussed challenges in obtaining detailed budget breakdowns, with Rita expressing concerns about high-level numbers without sufficient detail. The group also discussed upcoming events and the need for inclusive participation options.&#x20;

Budget Proposal Overview and Spreadsheet Structure

Lawrence presented the budget spreadsheet structure, explaining columns for ID tracking,  descriptions, return on investment, total amounts in ADA, and various categorization details. He emphasized the importance of understanding supplier commitments and budget priorities.

### Discussion of Budget Detail Challenges

Rita raised concerns about high-level budget numbers without detailed breakdowns. Lawrence explained the challenges of obtaining granular details due to committees' learning the budget process while creating a budget.  The budget committee needs to provide open training sessions to all interested parties so they can understand the process and the importance of a budget process.

Lloyd noted that the Net Change Limit was due to be posted on Monday.  Lawrence asked the attendees if they felt the draft budget should be released.

**Motion taken by unanimous decision** to hold off releasing the budget until additional detail has been collated in the detailed breakdown.

### Committee Review Process

The group discussed the review process for committee budgets, with Lawrence suggesting that committees present their budget requests to the budget committee for review.  Lloyd mentioned that the civics committee has been responsive in addressing feedback.

**Motion taken by unanimous decision** to set up sessions with the committees for the chair (and whom they deem necessary) to process their budgets to the budget committee.

### Event Planning

Lloyd proposed the comms plan and proposed a potential gathering in Denver on February 21st-22nd.  Nothing has been confirmed, as costs and options are being discussed.  Mercy mentioned that lessons need to be learned from the Constitution Event visa issue.  Lloyd mentioned that our planning should include multiple sessions to limit any visa risks.  Lloyd also mentioned that ALL DReps should be included in the process.  The attendees agreed that if any funding was available for a face-to-face meeting, then it must include a way for lower deligated DReps to be invited.  The attendees discussed a lottery-style option to ensure all DReps could be included.  No decisions were taken.

Lloyd mentioned that Zoom and online sessions will also be set up, but discussions are underway to seek funding to cover the cost of any events.  Should funding be available, then in-person sessions could be arranged via the hubs.  No decision was taken until funds were confirmed.

## Action Items

**Motion taken by unanimous decision** to hold off releasing the budget until additional detail has been collated in the detailed breakdown.

**Motion taken by unanimous decision** to set up sessions with the committees for the chair (and whom they deem necessary) to process their budgets to the budget committee.

Lawrence will create a Google sheet for budget committee comments and feedback for the committees.

Lawrence to schedule review meetings for Thursday and Friday.  Committees to be selected to present to the budget committee.

Lloyd will finalize plans for event gathering and streaming options.



