# Jan 13, 2025 Budget Comm minutes

### **Date, time, and location**

13 January 2025, 1600 UTC

Virtual meeting using Google Meet.

### Attendees: <a href="#attendees" id="attendees"></a>

Lloyd Duhon, Kriss Baird, Dave Dionisio, Jose Velazquez, Kristijan Kowalsky, Mercy, Steven Lupien (Chair), Rita Mistry, Shunsuke Murasaki, Pepe Otegui,&#x20;

### Absentees: <a href="#absentees" id="absentees"></a>

Jeffery Siler

## Agenda

<figure><img src="../../.gitbook/assets/2 -Jan 13 2025 Budget Meeting .png" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

## Summary

The meeting focused on several key topics including the formation of a budget process working group, updates from the civics budget meeting, and volunteer sign-ups for the communications plan. Lloyd Duhon led the meeting, facilitating discussions about the terms of reference for the budget process working group presented by Kriss Baird. The group discussed objectives, milestones, and implementation timelines for the budget process improvements. The meeting also covered updates from the civics budget meeting, particularly regarding the relationship between the constitution vote and budget approvals. Additionally, the committee discussed the need for better participation in communications activities and event representation. Key decisions included the approval of the budget process working group's terms of reference and planning for upcoming budget-related activities.\
Chapters

## Formation of Budget Process Working Group

Lloyd Duhon introduced the agenda, focusing on the budget process working group. Kriss Baird presented the terms of reference, outlining objectives to identify strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats in the existing budget process. The group discussed various aspects including collaboration between committee leads, audit processes, and research activities. The committee voted unanimously to approve the terms of reference and open the working group. The terms of reference were directed to be published one week after the meeting.

## Civics Budget Meeting Update

Lloyd Duhon provided an update from the civics budget meeting, discussing key points about the relationship between the constitution vote and budget approvals. He clarified that there would be separate votes for each governance action and explained the importance of the Plomin hard fork in enabling treasury actions.\


## Communications Plan and Volunteer Sign-ups

Lloyd Duhon discussed the need for better participation in communications activities. He proposed creating a spreadsheet for upcoming events and asked committee members to indicate their availability. The goal is to ensure broader representation across various events and activities.

## Action Items

* [ ] Kriss Baird to finalize the budget process working group's terms of reference and publish them on the knowledge base by January 20.
* [ ] Lloyd Duhon to create a spreadsheet for upcoming communications events and send it to committee members for volunteer sign-ups
* [ ] Lawrence to prepare and publish the full budget document for committee review by the January 20
* [ ] Rita Mistry requests to transition responsibilities to Andreas during her sabbatical in March and April

